Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on a and native image.
We saw that every platform has its own toolchain, Mac, OS and Linux and then Windows you.
Your best option is going to be to install Microsoft, the visual C compiler, mac os is Xcode.
You install it.
If you don't want to install the entire Xcode application, you can install the command line tools that
are basically the tool chains or the compilers that Mac OS supports.
And then I will show you in the future lectures how to basically install those command line tools,
right?
So every platform has its own compiler and the job of the compiler is to compile C++ or C applications
to native binary.
We know that all the operating systems today like Mac OS, Linux, Windows, they're built based on
C code or C++ code.
Now what I'm going to show you now is go back to our IDE and you saw that we had three folders and in
each one we had the Java class, we compiled them and then we compiled the entire application into a
native binary.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to create another directory called the example, and then in the example
I'm going to create, maybe let's create an empty file, let's call it the
C++ example, example, underscore CP and then or just example dot.
CP.
This is going to be a C++ file.
And here I'm going to first of all, we want to write a quick C++ program that writes the same things
to the console Hello World and then print some number.
And then the other thing that we want to do, we want to check whether our basically toolchain platform
toolchain in this case the compiler that comes from Mac OS are installed and ready to go.
So if we type C++, hyphen hyphen version 8.2, the apple clang toolchain and then it tells us where
it can find the installation directory, which is this one is in the Xcode app, right?
When you install the Xcode and then these applications, the toolchain comes with it.
Same with G plus plus hyphen, hyphen version.
Same thing you see, they point to the same location, which means basically when you install the Xcode
and the command line tools, all these aliases are generated automatically for the compiler, mac OS
compiler, right.
Apple clang.
So what we're going to do, we're going to so right now we are in this example.
So let's type some code, let's include the iOS stream and then we're going to say that INT Main, we
know that main in in general by convention is going to return zero on success.
It's not necessary in modern C++.
So basically when successfully terminated, return zero, right in Java, they try to make it simpler.
So the main actually doesn't return anything.
Its signature is void in C++, it's main, but it's INT.
But you don't really need to return zero.
Right.
So that's just kept by convention.
All right, now what what do we want to do?
We want to say in the 13 we had the STD namespace.
So STD C out, which means console out hello world from C++ application and exclamation mark and then
a backslash in character and then stdc out five.
Right.
And this insertion operator is overloaded for the console output stream so it understands the types.
So it's aware of the type five is an integer, it knows how to handle it and convert it to a string.
And then let's also add we can also add a backslash n for the new line character.
So we save this, we go back to our terminal, we say that g plus plus example dot c hyphen out.
The output file is called my app.
So let's see if this works fine.
And as you can see, everything worked fine.
If we do an LZ, you see that my app is generated and it doesn't have any extension, which makes sense.
We said that executables on macOS and Linux, they don't have any extension.
And then and this asterisk means this is a binary application, it's executable and it has the permission
to be executed.
This asterisk note that I'm running fish which is friendly, intelligent shell on top of my macOS terminal.
That's why it has more intelligent features like color highlighting.
And in this asterisk that tells me that this is an executable which has the permissions to be executed.
If we look at if we list the files with the long details, it tells me that my app has the exe permission
and in the previous lecture we saw that how we can give a binary application executable permission.
Right.
Or we can remove this with the CMD.
Right now that I have my app, I can execute it.
And we said that in Java, if you want to launch a Java application with the JVM, you specify the name
of the class that has the main and then the path to that class is specified in the directories that
are in the class path for C++ or executable native binaries.
It's not the case.
You just specify to the path to that file.
Right now my app is my in my current working directory so I can specify the relative path and then enter.
And then it says Hello World from C++ application and file.
So we successfully compiled our C++ application source code to a binary application for this particular
platform and we were able to execute it.
Right.
So if I go back and execute that hello world that we created by compiling our Java application to native
binary, I have to go one level up and then say Hello World, right and hello world from Java Application
five Core Machine.
All right, so everything works fine if you.
I can also quickly show you how to, for example, create a car object so we can declare a class core,
right?
And then know that we have to terminate with semicolon here.
And then we're going to say that.
So we're going to hear our core had the end price.
So into price.
Right.
And then we're going to have a public constructor car that takes an end price.
All right.
And then we're going to have a initialize list to say price price.
So and then our constructor is empty.
Right.
So it's better to initialize your fields using the initialize at least instead of in the body of the
in the body of the constructor.
Whereas in Java you don't have that option.
Right?
Everything has to be inside the body of the constructor.
That's fine.
And then we want to overload the output stream.
So basically what we want to say stdc out and then we want to create a car instance, right.
So we want to say car, car allocated on the stack with a, uh, let's say how much was the price here?
100.
All right.
And then we want to say stdc out and then push car to the and then to the console.
And then this.
Obviously, if we do this, if we try to compile, it's going to fail on compilation because right now
the console sea out object, it doesn't know how to handle a type a car.
Right so if we say gee plus plus my app and then it's going to give us error and the error is going
to be a complicated.
Let's go back up.
It says that I don't know what to do with this car candidate function not viable no known conversion
from car type to cost void.
Basically this is trying to convert to the character arrays right for the strings.
So what we're going to do, we're going to overload the basically see out operator, right.
So and you have to do it globally.
So overload see out operator for car type.
Now in Java, things are much easier because every object has the potential to be converted to a string.
Now that when we when we do these, when we send a car type to a print line, it calls the overloaded
function that actually basically it calls the to a string.
Right?
So this behind the scenes, this gets converted to to a string.
And then basically this is equivalent to saying car to string and pass that string to the print line
to the console.
So this call to the two string happens behind the scenes.
And the reason it's implicit because all the objects inherit from the object class implicitly, and
therefore they all inherit the two string method, right?
So to a string method, the object class provides a default to a string implement implementation, but
then you can override it in your own classes in C++ types like classes they don't inherit from any other
type.
So really there is no implicit inheritance here, unlike Java, where every class has implicit inheritance
from object class and therefore you have to manually overload the to a string.
So we're going to.
We're going to return a steady stream and then by reference and then operator insertion.
Right?
And then we're going to take that steady or stream with reference, let's say see out.
And then and then we're going to say car, car by reference, we don't want to create another copies.
And then obviously at the end we're going to return to the OS, see out again this output stream.
But then before returning back by reference, remember that it is c outs.
These console outputs are not copy.
So you cannot you have to only take them by reference.
You cannot take them by value because when you take them by value, a copy is generated and copy constructor
for the output streams for the console output is a deleted function.
So we're going to say that see out card basically what did we do here in the car?
Basically we're going to do the same thing, obviously in C++.
There is no force.
So we have to break this down into smaller pieces.
So this is one piece and then we insert the price and then we insert a bracket again, right?
So this is basically the same thing and then a semicolon.
So let's go back and see if we can compile our application again.
And now it doesn't work.
It says that, okay, so this is correct.
Price.
I know that this is a disease by default.
This is private, so we cannot inherit it.
So we can either make it public or create a getter.
So we're going to say that int get price and then and it's a cost function because it doesn't modify
usually getters in C++, they define as cost because they don't they don't change the set right.
In Java, there is no such thing as const method, but in C++ you can declare them as cons and here
we can say code that get price right and then everything works fine.
Let's go back and compile one more time.
Where is that?
Is there a semicolon missing c out.
Okay.
Returns the idea.
One more time.
And now everything works fine.
All right.
And then now we can say my app executed and car price then.
Right?
And again, if we go back to say a hello world, this is our executable binary, native binary that
came by from compiling our Java application and hello world from a Java application.
Hello world from C++ Application five core price 100.
Right.
So as you can see, there are differences in Java and C++.
Java development is much easier because you just right click and then source override to string method
for example.
In this case because we're not using Eclipse Bell to build system, it doesn't find the necessary stuff.
But in general, using an Java ID makes your development much, much faster.
Obviously there are also good IDs for C++, but the fact that if you define a class and you just want
to push it to the console output, you have to do extra work by overloading operators because this class
doesn't really implicitly inherit from some other class that provides an implementation or a default
implementation.
That's why you have to do extra work here.
It gives more control to you have to know that console output is not copy able.
You have to always pass them by reference.
And in in this case, we don't want to create a copy of the car object.
So we're also passing by reference and then you have to return the console output again by reference
so that you can cascade or chain all these operator calls.
Right?
So these are basically examples of how we can compile a C++ application to the native binary.
And then previously we saw a quick example of how to compile and how to compile a Java application to
Java binaries that class files and then have to then compile those classifiers into operating system
or platform binaries or native binaries.
Right.
So there is a difference between Java binary, which are the class files and native binaries which are
don't have really any extensions.
They're fully compiled and ready to be executed.
Right.
And then when you want to execute a native binary, you just give the relative path or the full path
on where they are on the hard disk.
And the operating system knows before obviously executing this operating system takes the permissions
of the files to make sure that they are allowed to be executed, otherwise the operating system doesn't
execute them.
So if you go back to the PowerPoint, what is the command line argument?
We said that we run applications with the terminal, and terminal is a text based application.
And any application, obviously, you want to pass, the user wants to pass some argument to them,
right.
So that the application behaves differently based on the parameters that you pass or the arguments you
pass.
Right?
The C++ compiled binary applications.
The main is the entry point to the execution.
And same with Java.
Right?
We know that both in C++, in Java, if you are trying to create an executable application, then you
have to have a main method.
And now in the more general sense, it's not necessary that the entry point your application is made
right in Java, it's mandatory in C++, it's not that much mandatory, but it's a strong convention
and I recommend that you always follow this convention.
Some compilers make it mandatory, other compilers may not make it mandatory.
You may be able to define a command line flag for the for the compiler so that it knows which function
is the entry point to your execution.
Some compilers make it mandatory.
For example, apple clang.
It makes it mandatory.
That main is the entry point to the execution, aesthetic and dynamic.
Libraries don't require a main entry point.
Same with Java.
If you're creating just a library, so some functions that can be used in another cases, then you don't
need to have main method because your goal is not to create an executable binary.
Your goal is to create an archive binary, a binary that has some function declarations and implementation,
but you cannot execute that file, right?
So the C++ main, the signature is INT Main, and then you can decide whether you want to take arguments,
command line arguments or not.
Right.
And if you if you go back here, you see in my main method, I decided not to take any arguments.
Right?
So if I go back here and try to say my app, hyphen, hyphen or some value, let's say hello, it just
disregards this because this doesn't mean anything to my application.
All right.
Now, if we say if we want to accept command line arguments, you have to declare ARG, see the count
of the arguments and can start a star, for example, arg v, right.
Something like that.
Or you can say an array of characters.
So this is a two dimensional array, right?
Which means an array of strings.
So array of strings is basically an array of array of characters.
Right.
An array of characters is a string, and then you have to take an array of strings.
So if you save these, let's see if we can compile
C++ and it it compiles fine.
Right.
But again, if I launch my application, it works.
But it disregards this command line arguments because I'm not using.
So let's check the let's check the command line.
Check the command line arguments in arguments in C++.
So let's say steady C out and in and let's create some separation here, backslash n and then std c
out.
We're going to say are C equals and in arg c, this is the count of the arguments and you will see that
actually the count is a it also counts then the name of the application.
Right.
As the as the argument.
So this is the.
And then next we want to basically write a for loop and iterate through this.
So basically, we know the number of arguments that are passed to our main method, right to our C++
application.
And then this is a character array which is a string and array.
So this is a array of a strings or array of character arrays.
A character is a string and then array of strings.
So we say four int I equals zero i less than arg c, right.
I plus plus this is obviously in Java.
You write arg width length because it's an array.
And in Java, every built in array has a length field.
But in C++, the built in array type doesn't have any feel.
It's purely like it's just a block of memory.
That's why your application or the operating system has to also tell your application how many command
line arguments were passed.
And we know that this is the terminal does this job right.
And the other thing is that INT is a signed integer and it is recommended in modern C++ to instead of
using it use size to type, right.
So the size D is platform dependent.
And I believe when you include something like iOS trim, the size is already there.
So if we open declaration, for example, let's see if we can open it up now.
So I see right now because this is not a C++ project, it doesn't really can find it, but size D,
if you include iOS, it's there and it's sized in modern 64 bit platform is equivalent to, for example,
unsigned, long unsigned line or 64 bit integer, 64 bit integer.
It's more about the address and we know that in Java arrays can only be indexed with integers, which
are 32 bit.
However, in modern C++, they decided to standardize the the type of index for the arrays, which is
60 and it's platform dependent.
And then we're going to say that stdc out and we're going to say arg v at index I right.
Is going to be equal to and then we're going to say ARG, we add index I and we're going to also push
a backslash n to the to the.
Terminal, right?
So this is how we do it.
So we're we're saying that Arc V at Index II is equal to the value of this string area right at Index
II.
So let's open up the terminal here.
And then we're going to compile.
Note that right now we're not using any extra libraries, so we're just going to use the simple command
line G plus and then we're going to say example, dot, CP hyphen.
Oh, it means that name the output file with my app.
So again, G plus plus.
First it runs the compiler, your CP becomes an object file and then after that.
The linker kicks in and then it combines all the object files to create the output executable.
And then we say that in my app and right now it prints and it says that r seven and then arg v zero
is dot my app.
So again, in C++ applications, the first argument is always the name of the application, whatever
you actually type on the operating system, right?
So the first argument, argument adding is always the name of the application, right?
So if you pass a what this means is that I just typed dot my app, I could say my app and then hello,
how are you doing right now.
These.
Hello, how are you doing these strings.
Each one of them is going to be considered a command line argument and it's going to be passed to this
very area with strings.
But hello is not going to be at index zero.
So we are running a application which was compiled from C++.
And in general what happens is that the name of the application, whatever you type, either a relative
path to the name of the executable or the absolute path.
This is always the first argument in ARG.
V So if you run this as you see RC six whereas we passed five command line arguments because our guide
index zero is whatever we type for the path to the executable and then are given at index one which
is the silicon index is this hello.
Right.
So this is how the C++ application work when you compile them to the native executable binary.
However, now we see that there's actually a difference between that and the Java application.
So let's go back to our Java application.
Hello World and I have already wrote that.
So again, a string arrays if you compile your java application this hello world that Java and then
you compile it to hell over that class.
Let's quickly do it.
Java C hyphen.
I've already defined a class path, so let's check that class path.
So it already has test three directory test and then test two.
So all these three.
So when I'm compiling my main class, I don't need to specify hyphen php.
So Java C dot dot go to the test and then helloworld java.
So there is an error somewhere.
So let's see.
Line 36.
So I guess we have an extra brace here, so maybe we can just remove this.
And I think this one is for the main method.
Yeah.
So we had an extra brace.
So let's go back clear and run our job application.
And then now it's compiled finds and then we say Java hello of old and we don't specify that class and
I'm not specifying the CPP class path and then I'm in an example directory, not in the test data.
So but this works fine because it if you don't explicitly write hyphen CPP, Java JVM looks for the
environment variable basically class path.
Right now what you see here is that the same behavior.
But look at the RC here.
RC is the dot length.
We know that in Java, arrays built in arrays or arrays basically have a final feed called length.
So you already know the length of and only the type of indices that the arrays accept is the int right.
You cannot do, for example, lying here, it's going to cause a compilation error.
So I'm going to do it here and then I'm just printing to console.log.
We add index percentage percent s I'm using the formatted command which was added, I believe from JDK
15, which is a very nice feature.
Or you can use the static method string format, but I prefer to type the string first and then call
the non static method formatted which is very nice feature.
And then what you see that not only you can pass the command line arguments to your job application
and the way you do it is after invoking the JVM on the main class.
So you tell JVM which class is the entry point to your job application, which one has the main method
and after that you can type.
Hello, how are you doing?
Right.
All of these five are going to be passed as the command line arguments.
Your string array.
All right.
You see, we have RC five, which means the length of this string area is five and at index zero is.
Hello, how are you doing?
Right.
So unlike the C++ application, when you compile them and the name of the application is not part of
this string array, which because JVM already knows that.
Right.
So and the terminal so doesn't pass it.
But then you see I have this name Arrow.
Now what is this?
So in Java you can also set parameters for the JVM for the Java application, right?
So remember when you launch the Java, you use the Java Command, it's an executable binary which launches
Java.
So it's a native application and you can pass arguments directly to the Java.
So when you use JVM to launch your job application, there are two different things at play.
One is your application, which has the main method, right?
That's the entry point to your job application.
And then you can pass arguments to that, a main method using the string args.
But then Java itself you can change or set properties for the JV that loads your Java application.
Right.
So you can configure the JVM.
So one of the ways that you can do it, you can use the system properties and these are like a dictionary.
So using hyphen dx, any command line arguments when you type your java, hello.
And then some command line arguments if you type hyphen DX, some key equals some value.
These are not going to be passed to the string array.
So let's see.
So Java Helloworld hyphen name equals bar and.
Now, first of all, at the moment it does pass as a regular command in arguments because you didn't
we put this hyphen the name equal Bob after the name of the class.
So after the name of the class, your main class, anything else?
Every string becomes a command line arguments.
But there is another option for us, and that option is to put this hyphen DX before the name of the
main class.
So and therefore we are passing an argument or a property for the JVs equals bar.
And now you see we have our C five, so Java hyphen D name equals Bob.
Right?
So what we did, we set a property for the JV team.
So our axes are still five after our main class, we have five strings that are passed as the string
array, right?
But then we have this name, Bob, and the way we access these or check these system properties, the
JV team configuration or JV and properties are using the system DOT Get Property Command.
So there is a difference here.
So we have two types of command joint arguments for Java application.
One is the ones that are passed as the string array.
These are command line arguments for your job application, but there are other ones that start with,
for example, hyphen DX key equals value, right?
These are system properties.
These are the properties of the JV team and you can access them in your Java code using system that
get property and you pass a string and get property, returns the string.
And if you if you can also check if this property is set by the user or not at the time of running the
basically Java application.
So if this method returns a null string, then it means that this property does not exist or has not
been set.
But if the user passes the property using hyphen dx name equals bob, then the this method system that
get property returns a valid string and then I'm printing it.
So again, if you just run this without that hyphen DX This property comes back as null, which means
this property does not exist.
But if we set this hyphen DX name, we call Bob and then you stand name becomes A now later when we
compile our Java application.
Well, we did grow old VM native image.
We know that.
We just typed the name of the application, just like a C++ one.
And after that we have to pass a command line arguments.
You see that when the native image compiles the Java application, the native executable binary still
distinguishes between hyphen dx parameters and the strings that don't have hyphen.
So we can quickly see this.
So let's go up and then let's go in the we don't need to go into the test directory, but let's go there.
I am going to delete this compilation, the old compilation and let's say gravel home being native image
and just a hyphen c p class path and then a hello world.
So hello world class.
And then we want to put it in the same directory.
Call it my Java app.
Right?
So it's going to put the output of the compiling this class which has a main method into the current
working directory which is test and it's going to name it my Java app.
So I just want to quickly show you what happens when you compile your native Java application to a native
pioneer.
Obviously I will go in in the future lectures.
I will go into all the details of how to install this native image, how to set it up, and what these
parameters are.
And yeah, so for now, I just want to quickly show you what happens when you compile this and the difference
between executing a native binary when it's it's coming from a compiling a job application versus what
we already saw from compiling a C++ application into native binary.
Right?
So that's done.
It was pretty quick.
And now we say that my Java app hyphen name equals Bob.
Hello, how are you doing?
So right now we are running a native executable file exactly like a C++ application, but we are giving
it to.
So every string that comes after that is a command line argument.
But this because this is compiled from Java application, it's going to distinguish between the ones
that have hyphen DX, some key equals, some value and the other ones that don't start with hyphen dx.
So as you can see it is still tells us.
ARX five So hello, how are you doing?
So five but why is that?
It doesn't say it's six because this hyphen DX name is called Bob is considered as a system property.
So again, when you compile with your native compiler two, you compile your Java applications.
The native executed binary.
That native executable binary still distinguishes between hyphen DX parameters and the regular strings.
So I want you to understand this and this is a good advantage because you can then take advantage of
these parameters and configure your applications separately from the command line arguments that the
user parses.
Right.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture.
Please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.